h1. Comatose

*NOTE:*<br />
This fork contains various fixes to make the plugin compatible with Rails 2.3.2.<br/>
There are also additions to the config file you can include in environment.rb to allow granular control over what a user can access:
<pre><code>
  # Custom rules to hide functions from users
  attr_accessor_with_default :allow_clear_cache,    true
  attr_accessor_with_default :allow_more_link,      true
  attr_accessor_with_default :allow_reordering,     true
  attr_accessor_with_default :allow_add_child,      true
</code></pre>

The page reordering works, however I resorted to using the original scriptaculous <code>Sortable.create</code> since for some reason the Rails <code>sortable_element</code> would not work.

h3. Example Configuration Using This Fork

You configure Comatose in your <code>config/environment.rb</code> file. Here is an example configuration block:
<pre><code>
Comatose.configure do |config|

  config.admin_title          = 'Administration'
  config.admin_helpers        = []
  config.admin_sub_title      = 'Administration Pages'
  config.content_type         = 'utf-8'
  config.default_filter       = ''
  config.default_processor    = :erb
  config.default_tree_level   = 3
  config.disable_caching      = true
  config.hidden_meta_fields   = 'filter'
  config.allow_import_export  = true
  
  # Custom rules to hide functions from users
  config.allow_clear_cache    = true
  config.allow_more_link      = true
  config.allow_reordering     = true
  config.allow_add_child      = true
  
  config.helpers << ApplicationHelper

  # Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseController
  config.includes << :authenticated_system

  # Calls :login_required as a before_filter
  config.authorization = :login_required
     
  # Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseAdminController
  config.admin_includes << :authenticated_system

  # Returns the author name (login, in this case) for the current user
    config.admin_get_author do
      current_user.login
    end

  # Calls :login_required as a before_filter
  config.admin_authorization = :login_required
  
  #Returns different admin 'root paths'
    config.admin_get_root_page do
      
      #cms_role is a special db field in the users table defining a user role, you could also use role_ids
        if current_user.cms_role == "root" # This depends on your system
          ComatosePage.find_by_path( '' )
    
        elsif current_user.cms_role == "school"
          # Returns multiple 'roots'
          [
            ComatosePage.find_by_path( 'school' )
          ]
    
        else
          redirect_to('/')
          # Other possible values here could be:
          #   ComatosePage.root
          #   or
          #   access_denied
        end
      end

end
</code></pre>

h1. Original Documentation

* Original Author:  M@ McCray
* Website: comatose.rubyforge.org
* Email: matt at elucidata dot net

*Comatose* is a micro CMS designed for being embedded into existing Rails applications.

It's intended for simple CMS support. Comatose supports:

 * Nested pages
 * Versioning
 * Page markup in Textile, Markdown, RDoc, or easily add your own 
 * Page processing through Liquid or ERb
 * Generators for easy installation/migration
 * Completely self-contained within plugin folder

It's meant to be lean, mean, easily embedded, and easy to re-skin for existing applications. If you need something more, I would recommend looking into Radiant.

For more information, see the "Getting Started":http://comatose.rubyforge.org/getting-started-guide guide.

h3. Requirements

 * Rails 2+ (2.1)
 * `acts_as_list` and `acts_as_tree` plugins are required (at the moment)

h3. Development Notes

*NOTE*: This is an active branch of Comatose that is built specifically for Rails 2.1. I will *probably* remove any legacy support.

 * Make comatose fully self-contained, which means removing `acts_as_(tree|list)`
 * Improve `ComatoseAdminController` to reduce number of DB calls for building the page tree
 * Move to gem plugin
 * `Comatose.configure` needs to be an initializer (update docs)
 * Go through bugs on 1x branch from google code and ensure they are fixed
 * Give access to all the default rails helpers to Comatose Pages by default?
 * UI refresh (nothing major, just some cleanup).
 * RESTful goodness.
 * Support XML/JSON responses from `ComatoseController` and `ComatoseAdminController`.
 * Support for static rendering (for generating sites like this blog).

h3. Installation

*Note*: See the 'Upgrading' section if you already have an older version of the comatose plugin installed.
        
<pre><code>
    $ ./script/plugin install git://github.com/darthapo/comatose.git
    $ ./script/generate comatose_migration
    $ rake db:migrate
</code></pre>
  
Open your <code>routes.rb</code> and move the following comatose route to the bottom:

   <pre><code> map.comatose_root ''</pre></code>

That's it, you're ready to go! You should be able to browse to http://127.0.0.1:3000/**comatose_admin** and start adding pages to your CMS. 
Browsing to http://127.0.0.1:3000/ will render your comatose pages if routing doesn't match any of your controllers. 


h3. Upgrading

*NOTE*: This is an experimental 2.0 branch, so upgrading is possible at the moment, but these instructions may not work for much longer.

If you are upgrading from an older version of Comatose (version 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, or 0.6), then you will need to re-install the comatose plugin and run:

<pre><code>
    $ ./script/plugin remove comatose
    $ ./script/plugin install comatose
    $ ./script/generate comatose_migration --upgrade --from=VERSION
    $ rake migrate
</code></pre>

*Note*: Be sure to set the `--from` parameter to the version of Comatose you last had installed. Also, you only need to first two digits, including the dot, of the version you are upgrading from. For example, if you're upgrading from version 0.6.9 you can use:

<pre><code>
    $ ./script/generate comatose_migration --upgrade --from=0.6
</code></pre>

This will create the upgrade migration(s) for you. It just adds the new fields, so you can keep the original migration comatose created.


h3. Configuration

You configure Comatose in your <code>config/environment.rb</code> file. Here is an example configuration block:

<pre><code>
    Comatose.configure do |config|
      # Sets the text in the Admin UI's title area
      config.admin_title = "Site Content"
      config.admin_sub_title = "Content for the rest of us..."
    end
</pre></code>
  
Here's an example that uses the `AuthenticationSystem` as generated by the `restful_authentication` plugin:

<pre><code>
    Comatose.configure do |config|
      # Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseController
      config.includes << :authenticated_system

      # admin 
      config.admin_title = "Comatose - TESTING"
      config.admin_sub_title = "Content for the rest of us..."

      # Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseAdminController
      config.admin_includes << :authenticated_system
  
      # Calls :login_required as a before_filter
      config.admin_authorization = :login_required
      # Returns the author name (login, in this case) for the current user
      config.admin_get_author do
        current_user.login
      end
    end
</code></pre>


h3. Extra Credit

This plugin includes the work of many wonderful contributors to the Railsphere. Following are the specific libraries that are distributed with Comatose. If I've missed someone/something please let me know.

* "Liquid":http://home.leetsoft.com/liquid by "Tobias Luetke":http://blog.leetsoft.com
* "RedCloth":http://whytheluckystiff.net/ruby/redcloth by "_why":http://whytheluckystiff.net
* "Acts as Versioned":http://ar-versioned.rubyforge.org by "Rick Olsen":http://weblog.techno-weenie.net
* "Behaviors":http://behaviors.rubyforge.org by Atomic Object LLC -- very nice BDD-like testing library

h3. Feedback

I’ve released Comatose under the MIT license. Which basically means you can use it however you want.

Don't forget to read the "Getting Started":http://comatose.rubyforge.org/getting-started-guide guide located on the RubyForge project site.

If you like it, hate it, or have some ideas for new features, let me know!

matt at elucidata dot net


* "Getting Started":http://comatose.rubyforge.org/getting-started-guide
* "Liquid":http://home.leetsoft.com/liquid
* "Tobias Luetke":http://blog.leetsoft.com
* "RedCloth":http://whytheluckystiff.net/ruby/redcloth
* "_why":http://whytheluckystiff.net
* "Acts as Versioned":http://ar-versioned.rubyforge.org
* "Rick Olsen":http://weblog.techno-weenie.net
* "Behaviors":http://behaviors.rubyforge.org